# Project Checkpoint

We have added the data. One CSV contained the accelerometer data while the Trandermal Alcohol Content (TAC) data was located in seperate files for each person. We first combined all of the seperate TAC CSV files into one data frame. We then merged that dataframe with the accelerometer data frame we created earlier based on the PID (Phone Identification). After we combined the data frames, we created a new "magnitude" column in order to reduce noise which is common in phone accelerometer data. We created "windows" of time of 2 seconds each so that our model is looking at seconds instead of milliseconds. We created features for these windows using mean/standard deviation/max/variance of the magnitudes as well as the standard deviation of the x, y, and z values. We then seperated our data into x's and y's and grouped them based on PID so what we could use Group K-Fold cross validation. If the model see's mostly phone A's data, it could recognize how that specific phone usually moves in the test set. We want our model to predict high TAC for any phone movement so we will be using random PID groups as the validation set. Finally, we created a pipeline and used cross validation. For this first model, we used a random forest. Our data is imbalanced though, so one of our next steps will be to use a weighted ramdom forest as well as possibly tying the SMOTE method. Because we want to use an ensemble method that takes many different models and votes on the label, this is just our first step towards that.